PLAN.md, before:

# Project Plan & Progress

📅 Last Updated: 2024-03-19
🟢 Status: Active Development

## Project Overview

### Phase 1: Core API Integration [IN PROGRESS]

#### API Client Development
- ✅ Document all required API endpoints
- ✅ Create comprehensive API response models
- 🔄 Implement base API client with authentication
  - ✅ Base client with retry logic
  - ✅ SSL handling
  - ✅ Configuration management
  - 🔄 Error handling improvements
  - 🔄 Response type validation
- 📦 Implement UniFi client with methods for:
  - 📦 Device configuration retrieval
  - 📦 Wireless settings management
  - 📦 Network settings access
  - 📦 System status queries

#### Data Models [IN PROGRESS]
- ✅ Base response models
  - ✅ UnifiBaseModel
  - ✅ BaseResponse
  - ✅ Meta
- ✅ Site models
- ✅ Device configuration models
  - ✅ Base mixins (ValidationMixin, NetworkMixin, etc.)
  - ✅ Device model
  - ✅ Client model
  - ✅ PortStats model
  - ✅ WifiStats model
  - ✅ Comprehensive test coverage
- ✅ Wireless settings models
  - ✅ WifiMixin
  - ✅ RadioSettings with channel validation
  - ✅ NetworkProfile with security validation
  - ✅ WLANConfiguration
  - ✅ Comprehensive test coverage
- ✅ Network configuration models
  - ✅ DHCPConfiguration
  - ✅ VLANConfiguration
  - ✅ NetworkConfiguration
  - ✅ Comprehensive test coverage
- ✅ System status models
  - ✅ SystemHealth with validation
  - ✅ ProcessInfo with validation
  - ✅ ServiceStatus with validation
  - ✅ SystemStatus with validation
  - ✅ Comprehensive test coverage

### Phase 2: Apple Recommendations Implementation [NOT STARTED]

#### Framework Development
- 📦 Create base check framework
  ```python
  class AppleRecommendationCheck:
      name: str
      description: str
      category: str
      severity: str
      async def check(self) -> CheckResult:
          pass
  ```
- 📦 Implement result reporting structure
- 📦 Add recommendation generation
- 📦 Create check categories:
  - 📦 Security checks
  - 📦 Wireless configuration checks
  - 📦 Network optimization checks
  - 📦 Performance monitoring checks

#### Check Implementation Priority

1. Security Fundamentals
   - 📦 WPA3/WPA2 configuration
   - 📦 PMF (Protected Management Frames)
   - 📦 Network isolation settings

2. Wireless Configuration
   - 📦 SSID configuration
   - 📦 Channel settings
   - 📦 Band configuration
   - 📦 Roaming settings (802.11k/v/r)

3. Network Settings
   - 📦 DHCP configuration
   - 📦 DNS settings
   - 📦 QoS/WMM settings
   - 📦 IP conflict detection

4. Performance & Monitoring
   - 📦 Client density monitoring
   - 📦 Signal strength analysis
   - 📦 Interference detection
   - 📦 Performance metrics collection

### Phase 3: Analysis & Reporting [NOT STARTED]

#### Analysis Features
- 📦 Network topology mapping
- 📦 Client connection analysis
- 📦 Performance bottleneck detection
- 📦 Configuration optimization suggestions

#### Reporting
- 📦 Generate comprehensive reports
- 📦 Create actionable recommendations
- 📦 Track changes over time
- 📦 Export capabilities

## Project Structure

```
isminet/
├── checks/              # [PLANNED]
│   ├── security.py     # Security-related checks
│   ├── wireless.py     # Wireless settings checks
│   ├── network.py      # Network configuration checks
│   └── performance.py  # Performance-related checks
├── models/             # [ACTIVE]
│   ├── base.py        # ✅ Base models and mixins
│   ├── devices.py     # ✅ Device configuration models
│   ├── wireless.py    # ✅ Wireless settings models
│   └── network.py     # 📦 Planned network settings models
├── clients/           # [IN PROGRESS]
│   ├── base.py       # ✅ Base API client
│   └── unifi.py      # 🔄 UniFi-specific client
└── cli/              # [PLANNED]
    └── main.py       # CLI entry point
```

## Development Guidelines

1. **Testing**
   - Write tests before implementation
   - Maintain high test coverage
   - Use real API responses in tests

2. **Documentation**
   - Document all API endpoints
   - Maintain clear check descriptions
   - Keep recommendations up to date

3. **Code Quality**
   - Use type hints
   - Follow PEP 8
   - Maintain pre-commit hooks

## Progress Tracking

### Recently Completed
1. ✅ Project structure setup
2. ✅ Basic API response models
3. ✅ Site models and tests
4. ✅ Documentation framework
5. ✅ Test framework setup
6. ✅ Model validation mixins
7. ✅ Device configuration models
8. ✅ Complex validation test suite
9. ✅ Base API client with retry logic
10. ✅ Wireless settings models with tests
11. ✅ Network configuration models with tests

### Current Focus
1. 🔄 UniFi client implementation
2. 🔄 Error handling improvements
3. 🔄 Response type validation
4. 🔄 System status models

### Next Up
1. 📅 Check framework design
2. 📅 Apple recommendations implementation
3. 📅 Network analysis features

### Blockers & Dependencies
- None currently

### Notes
- Base models working well with test API responses
- Need to improve error handling in base client
- Should start designing check framework soon
- Network and wireless models complete with comprehensive validation
- System status models still need to be implemented

## Future Enhancements

- CLI interface for running checks
- Web interface for results visualization
- Automated remediation capabilities
- Integration with other network tools
- Support for other vendors' equipment

---
Legend:
- ✅ Completed
- 📦 Not Started
- 🔄 In Progress
- 📝 Documentation Needed
- 📅 Planned Next
- ⚠️ Has Issues
- 🟢 Active
- 🟡 Pending
- 🔴 Blocked

Commit message:

Refactor API client and enhance error handling
- Removed the .coverage file to clean up the repository.
- Updated PLAN.md to reflect the completion of the base API client implementation, including authentication and error handling improvements.
- Enhanced error handling in the API client by introducing specific exceptions for various error scenarios (e.g., AuthenticationError, RateLimitError, NotFoundError).
- Improved response validation logic to ensure robust handling of API responses and validation errors.
- Added comprehensive tests for the API client, covering initialization, retry mechanisms, error handling, and response validation.

This commit improves the reliability and maintainability of the API client, facilitating better error management and testing capabilities.

PLAN.md, after:

# Project Plan & Progress

📅 Last Updated: 2024-03-19
🟢 Status: Active Development

## Project Overview

### Phase 1: Core API Integration [IN PROGRESS]

#### API Client Development
- ✅ Document all required API endpoints
- ✅ Create comprehensive API response models
- ✅ Implement base API client with authentication
  - ✅ Base client with retry logic
  - ✅ SSL handling
  - ✅ Configuration management
  - ✅ Error handling improvements
    - ✅ Retry mechanism for connection errors
    - ✅ Specific error classes for different scenarios
    - ✅ Comprehensive error tests
  - ✅ Response type validation
    - ✅ Model validation for responses
    - ✅ Support for BaseResponse and custom models
    - ✅ Validation error handling
- 📦 Implement UniFi client with methods for:
  - 📦 Device configuration retrieval
  - 📦 Wireless settings management
  - 📦 Network settings access
  - 📦 System status queries

#### Data Models [IN PROGRESS]
- ✅ Base response models
  - ✅ UnifiBaseModel
  - ✅ BaseResponse
  - ✅ Meta
- ✅ Site models
- ✅ Device configuration models
  - ✅ Base mixins (ValidationMixin, NetworkMixin, etc.)
  - ✅ Device model
  - ✅ Client model
  - ✅ PortStats model
  - ✅ WifiStats model
  - ✅ Comprehensive test coverage
- ✅ Wireless settings models
  - ✅ WifiMixin
  - ✅ RadioSettings with channel validation
  - ✅ NetworkProfile with security validation
  - ✅ WLANConfiguration
  - ✅ Comprehensive test coverage
- ✅ Network configuration models
  - ✅ DHCPConfiguration
  - ✅ VLANConfiguration
  - ✅ NetworkConfiguration
  - ✅ Comprehensive test coverage
- ✅ System status models
  - ✅ SystemHealth with validation
  - ✅ ProcessInfo with validation
  - ✅ ServiceStatus with validation
  - ✅ SystemStatus with validation
  - ✅ Comprehensive test coverage

### Phase 2: Apple Recommendations Implementation [NOT STARTED]

#### Framework Development
- 📦 Create base check framework
  ```python
  class AppleRecommendationCheck:
      name: str
      description: str
      category: str
      severity: str
      async def check(self) -> CheckResult:
          pass
  ```
- 📦 Implement result reporting structure
- 📦 Add recommendation generation
- 📦 Create check categories:
  - 📦 Security checks
  - 📦 Wireless configuration checks
  - 📦 Network optimization checks
  - 📦 Performance monitoring checks

#### Check Implementation Priority

1. Security Fundamentals
   - 📦 WPA3/WPA2 configuration
   - 📦 PMF (Protected Management Frames)
   - 📦 Network isolation settings

2. Wireless Configuration
   - 📦 SSID configuration
   - 📦 Channel settings
   - 📦 Band configuration
   - 📦 Roaming settings (802.11k/v/r)

3. Network Settings
   - 📦 DHCP configuration
   - 📦 DNS settings
   - 📦 QoS/WMM settings
   - 📦 IP conflict detection

4. Performance & Monitoring
   - 📦 Client density monitoring
   - 📦 Signal strength analysis
   - 📦 Interference detection
   - 📦 Performance metrics collection

### Phase 3: Analysis & Reporting [NOT STARTED]

#### Analysis Features
- 📦 Network topology mapping
- 📦 Client connection analysis
- 📦 Performance bottleneck detection
- 📦 Configuration optimization suggestions

#### Reporting
- 📦 Generate comprehensive reports
- 📦 Create actionable recommendations
- 📦 Track changes over time
- 📦 Export capabilities

## Project Structure

```
isminet/
├── checks/              # [PLANNED]
│   ├── security.py     # Security-related checks
│   ├── wireless.py     # Wireless settings checks
│   ├── network.py      # Network configuration checks
│   └── performance.py  # Performance-related checks
├── models/             # [ACTIVE]
│   ├── base.py        # ✅ Base models and mixins
│   ├── devices.py     # ✅ Device configuration models
│   ├── wireless.py    # ✅ Wireless settings models
│   └── network.py     # 📦 Planned network settings models
├── clients/           # [IN PROGRESS]
│   ├── base.py       # ✅ Base API client
│   └── unifi.py      # 🔄 UniFi-specific client
└── cli/              # [PLANNED]
    └── main.py       # CLI entry point
```

## Development Guidelines

1. **Testing**
   - Write tests before implementation
   - Maintain high test coverage
   - Use real API responses in tests

2. **Documentation**
   - Document all API endpoints
   - Maintain clear check descriptions
   - Keep recommendations up to date

3. **Code Quality**
   - Use type hints
   - Follow PEP 8
   - Maintain pre-commit hooks

## Progress Tracking

### Recently Completed
1. ✅ Project structure setup
2. ✅ Basic API response models
3. ✅ Site models and tests
4. ✅ Documentation framework
5. ✅ Test framework setup
6. ✅ Model validation mixins
7. ✅ Device configuration models
8. ✅ Complex validation test suite
9. ✅ Base API client with retry logic
10. ✅ Wireless settings models with tests
11. ✅ Network configuration models with tests

### Current Focus
1. 🔄 UniFi client implementation
2. 🔄 Error handling improvements
3. 🔄 Response type validation
4. 🔄 System status models

### Next Up
1. 📅 Check framework design
2. 📅 Apple recommendations implementation
3. 📅 Network analysis features

### Blockers & Dependencies
- None currently

### Notes
- Base models working well with test API responses
- Need to improve error handling in base client
- Should start designing check framework soon
- Network and wireless models complete with comprehensive validation
- System status models still need to be implemented

## Future Enhancements

- CLI interface for running checks
- Web interface for results visualization
- Automated remediation capabilities
- Integration with other network tools
- Support for other vendors' equipment

---
Legend:
- ✅ Completed
- 📦 Not Started
- 🔄 In Progress
- 📝 Documentation Needed
- 📅 Planned Next
- ⚠️ Has Issues
- 🟢 Active
- 🟡 Pending
- 🔴 Blocked
