README.md, before:

# isminet

[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)

A Python tool for analyzing and optimizing UniFi Network deployments, with a focus on Apple device compatibility and best practices.

## Overview

This project serves two main purposes:

1. **Network Analysis**: Gather information about UniFi networks to analyze and diagnose problems (e.g., IP address conflicts, connectivity issues).
2. **Apple Compatibility**: Validate UniFi network configurations against Apple's recommended settings for optimal performance with Apple devices.

## Project Structure

- `isminet/`: Main package directory
  - `models.py`: Pydantic models for UniFi API responses
  - `clients/`: API client implementations
- `tests/`: Test suite
  - `test_models.py`: Tests for data models
- `docs/`: Documentation
  - `unifi_network_api.md`: UniFi Network API documentation
  - `api_responses/`: Example API responses
  - `apple_recommendations.md`: Apple's Wi-Fi recommendations checklist

## Features

- UniFi Network API integration
- Pydantic models for type-safe API interactions
- Configuration validation against Apple's recommendations
- Network analysis capabilities (coming soon)

## Development

This project uses:
- Python 3.12+
- `uv` for dependency management
- `pytest` for testing
- `pre-commit` for code quality

To set up for development:
```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync --all-groups

# Run tests
uv run pytest .
```

## Status

This project is in early development. Current focus is on:
1. Implementing Apple's Wi-Fi recommendations checklist
2. Building core UniFi API integration
3. Developing network analysis features

Commit message:

Remove sensitive configuration and API response files; update .gitignore and add LICENSE
- Deleted the .env file containing sensitive UniFi API configuration details to enhance security.
- Updated .gitignore to include the .env file and other sensitive data directories, ensuring they are not tracked by Git.
- Added a LICENSE file to clarify the project's licensing under the MIT License.
- Removed several API response JSON files to clean up the repository and prevent accidental exposure of sensitive data.

This commit improves the security posture of the project by removing sensitive information and clarifying licensing terms.

README.md, after:

# isminet

[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A Python tool for analyzing and optimizing UniFi Network deployments, with a focus on Apple device compatibility and best practices.

## Overview

This project serves two main purposes:

1. **Network Analysis**: Gather information about UniFi networks to analyze and diagnose problems (e.g., IP address conflicts, connectivity issues).
2. **Apple Compatibility**: Validate UniFi network configurations against Apple's recommended settings for optimal performance with Apple devices.

## Project Structure

- `isminet/`: Main package directory
  - `models.py`: Pydantic models for UniFi API responses
  - `clients/`: API client implementations
- `tests/`: Test suite
  - `test_models.py`: Tests for data models
- `docs/`: Documentation
  - `unifi_network_api.md`: UniFi Network API documentation
  - `api_responses/`: Local directory for real API responses (not tracked in git)
  - `apple_recommendations.md`: Apple's Wi-Fi recommendations checklist

## Features

- UniFi Network API integration
- Pydantic models for type-safe API interactions
- Configuration validation against Apple's recommendations
- Network analysis capabilities (coming soon)

## Development

This project uses:
- Python 3.12+
- `uv` for dependency management
- `pytest` for testing
- `pre-commit` for code quality

To set up for development:
```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync --all-groups

# Run tests
uv run pytest .
```

## Status

This project is in early development. Current focus is on:
1. Implementing Apple's Wi-Fi recommendations checklist
2. Building core UniFi API integration
3. Developing network analysis features
